---
title: "Storage Gateway"
tags:
- aws
disableToc: false
---

### Related Notes
- [AWS Wiki](/notes/aws/aws-wiki.md)

## **Storage Gateway** (*integrates*)
- AWS Storage Gateway connects an on-premises software appliance with cloud-based storage to provide seamless integration with data security features between your on-premises IT environment and the AWS storage infrastructure. You can use the service to store data in the AWS Cloud for scalable and cost-effective storage that helps maintain data security.
- A file gateway supports a file interface into S3 and combines a service and a virtual software appliance. By using this combo, you can store and retrieve objects in S3 using industry-standard file protocols such as **Network File System (NFS)** and **Server Message Block (SMB)**. The software appliance, or gateway, is deployed into your on-premises environment as a virtual machine (VM) running on VMware ESXi, Microsoft Hyper-V, or Linux Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM) hypervisor.
- Although you can copy data from on-premises to AWS with AWS Storage Gateway, it is not suitable for transferring large sets of data to AWS. Storage Gateway is mainly used in providing low-latency access to data by caching frequently accessed data on-premises while storing archive data securely and durably in Amazon cloud storage services. Storage Gateway optimizes data transfer to AWS by sending only changed data and compressing data.
- You can use Amazon FSx File Gateway, as a part of AWS Storage Gateway, to support an SMB file share for an on-premises applications. It provides low latency access, and Amazon FSx File Gateway helps accelerate your file-based storage migration to the cloud to enable faster performance, improved data protection, and reduced cost.
- AWS File Gateway is another part of AWS Storage Gateway, which presents a file-based interface to Amazon S3, which appears as a network file share. It enables you to store and retrieve Amazon S3 objects through standard file storage protocols. File Gateway allows your existing filed-based applications or devices to use secure and durable cloud storage without needing to be modified. With File Gateway, your configured S3 buckets will be available as Network File System (NFS) mounts points or Server Message Block (SMB) file shares. To store the backup data from on-premises to a durable cloud storage service, you can use File Gateway to store and retrieve objects through standard file storage protocols (SMB or NFS). File Gateway enables your existing file-based applications, devices, and workflows to use Amazon S3, without modification. File Gateway securely and durably stores both file contents and metadata as objects while providing your on-premises applications low-latency access to cached data.
- AWS Volume Gateway is another part of AWS Storage Gateway. You can use Volume Gateways in stored mode or cached mode. Cached mode provides lower latency. By using cached volumes, you can use Amazon S3 as your primary data storage, while retaining frequently accessed data locally in your storage gateway. Cached volumes minimize the need to scale your on-premises storage infrastructure, while still providing your applications with low-latency access to frequently accessed data. You can create storage volumes up to 32 TiB in size and afterward, attach these volumes as iSCSI devices to your on-premises application servers. When you write to these volumes, your gateway stores the data in Amazon S3. It retains the recently read data in your on-premises storage gateway cache and uploads buffer storage.
- The AWS Storage Gateway Hardware Appliance is a physical hardware appliance with the Storage Gateway software preinstalled on a validated sever configuration. The hardware appliance is a high-performance 1U server that you can deploy in your data center, or on-premises inside your corporate firewall. When you buy and activate your hardware appliance, the activation process associates your hardware appliance with your AWS account.
- If new Storage should be available as iSCSI target, choose Storage Gateway. 